Hi, today we're going to talk about a technology that you might be using every day, but it's a little bit mysterious.
That is,生成式AI.
We don't just talk about what chat GPT tools can do for us.
What's more important is that we have to open its engine cover together to see what's working inside.
That's right, you might have used it to write an email, think of ideas for you, or even make a report.
But have you ever stopped and thought about what magic happened in the black box after you typed a line and pressed send?
This is where we're going to explore today.
Okay, let's start with the most fundamental question.
What is生成式AI?
If we can only use one word to describe it, it's definitely creation.
It's the most different thing from the traditional AI we used to know.
It's the ability to create new things without any middle ground.
Look, this picture explains it very clearly.
Traditional AI is more like your garbage email filter.
Its job is to analyze a letter and then judge where to classify it.
But生成式AI is different.
It can directly help you create a new letter.
One is analysis, one is creation.
This is a huge difference.
Okay, here's the question.
How did such an amazing thing come about?
It didn't come out of nowhere.
It's actually the three key elements.
At the right time, they all come together to create this innovative, perfect storm.
The first element is that the algorithm has made a big breakthrough.
Although the concept of AI has been around for a long time,
in 2017, a structure called Transformer was launched.
Wow, the rules of the game have changed.
You can imagine it as a super ability for AI to read up and down.
When it's reading a long article,
it won't forget what it's saying at the end.
The second element is the amount of information.
Think about how many websites, articles, and city codes
have become the best fuel for training AI.
This is like giving AI the last 100 books in the world
so that it can learn all the knowledge and language models from inside.
The last element is of course to have a super powerful computer to run.
Like GPU, TPU, these chips designed specifically for AI
provide a very amazing computing power.
With these magical weapons,
we may be able to use so much information
to train these large and incredible models.
I didn't even dare to think about it a few years ago.
When these three things, super powerful computing power,
large amount of information, and huge computing power
are all put together and the scale is getting bigger and bigger,
scientists found a very magical phenomenon called the scale rule.
They found that models not only became more and more intelligent,
but even suddenly learned some new skills
that we have never clearly taught them.
For example, like humans, we can step by step analyze problems.
Okay, we know the secret to their success.
So how did they learn it?
In fact, we can simplify this very complicated process
into two very important steps.
These two steps are pre-training and maintenance.
Simply put, the pre-training stage
is to let models learn the various rules and modes of language first
and then in the maintenance stage,
we teach them how to become a helpful and useful helper to humans.
In pre-training, you can imagine that AI
is like reading all the words that can be found on the entire network.
But its purpose is not to die by the knowledge in it.
No.
It is to learn how words are connected between words and words.
In the brain, we build a super complicated language map.
The model after pre-training is a bit like a genius
who is very smart but does not understand human affairs.
So the maintenance stage is very important.
We will use a lot of artificial feedback to teach it,
to build it,
to tell it what kind of answer is good and helpful,
what kind of answer is not good,
to make it more in line with our expectations.
OK.
So far, we have probably understood its basic principles.
Now, let's think in a more interesting way.
Let's imagine it as
a new colleague with a super talented and brilliant company.
Let's help this AI colleague
do a performance evaluation
to see where his strengths and weaknesses are.
OK.
Let's take a look at this new colleague's performance report.
You see, his advantages are obvious.
He has a strong language ability,
can do any task a little,
can remember the content of our chat,
and even can use external tools.
But he also has some
places that need us to take care of.
For example, his knowledge has a deadline.
Sometimes it will be a serious nonsense.
We call it a hallucination,
and his short-term memory is also limited.
Let's take a look at it one by one.
Speaking of his advantages,
he has a really strong language ability.
He can help you write a letter,
do a report analysis,
and even talk to you about literature and poetry in the last second.
In the next second, he can switch to explain complex scientific concepts.
What's even better is that
he can remember the text of your conversation,
just like chatting with real people.
Even now, many models can still connect to the Internet
to check the latest information.
But he has the biggest problem,
which is the hallucination we just mentioned.
This sentence is super close.
Imagine that your friend tells you something
in a very certain tone,
and the details inside are completely wrong.
AI is sometimes like this.
This also reminds us of one of the most important things.
What he said is that
you must not collect 100% of the bill,
you must check it.
Another big limit
is the date of his knowledge.
This is like
a person from a specific day
went to the mountains to practice,
completely disconnected from the outside world.
So if all the news events that happened that day
are not checked by external tools,
he is not worth it.
Okay, after understanding the advantages and disadvantages of this new colleague,
you should have also found that
now the focus is not on who is better with AI,
but on how people cooperate with AI
to become a super team of human and AI.
You see, this picture is very clear.
We humans are strong in critical thinking,
value judgment,
and the creativity of the sky and the sky.
What about AI?
It is strong in the speed of comparison
and the ability to handle a lot of information.
Think about it,
when we combine the advantages of these two sides,
what kind of combination will it be?
So today we start with a mysterious black box
and explore all the way,
until we finally see it as a new colleague
that we are familiar with and a little unfamiliar with.
Now the final question
actually comes back to us.
AI, this powerful assistant,
is ready to work.
What about you?
Are you ready to work with him?